This is a guide that explains how to add custom songs to Music+.

Video tutorial: youtu.be/on9ZhDSSS88

To start, you need to download the Custom Music Container companion pack. The download for this resource pack can be found next to the download for Music+. Import the pack into Minecraft.

Next, acquire the file of your song. It may have metadata attached to it, such as an album cover, but that does not affect this process. Remember that Music+ does not condone actions that infringe upon the rights of others. Do not download songs that you do not have the right to.

The song must now be converted to the OGG format so it can be read by Minecraft. Use the website audio.online-convert.com/convert-to-ogg to convert your song file. Up to 10 songs can be converted at once. Attempting to convert more than 10 songs brings you to a purchase screen. Do not select any payment plans. If you are brought to the payment screen, use your browser's back button to return to the correct page.

Select the Choose Files button on the website and locate the song file on your device. The file will take some time to upload to the website. When the upload is finished, select the Start conversion button. This button brings you to a screen that displays your converted files. Select the green Download button on the far right side of the page to download the file.

The next step is to move the converted files to the correct location inside the Custom Music Container resource pack folder. This step is different depending on your device.

Android: Open a file manager app and navigate to the Download folder. This is where the converted files are located. Select every converted song that you would like to have in the music player and press Cut. Navigate to games/com.mojang/resource_packs and open the folder called CustomMusi. Open the folder inside called "custom_songs", then press paste to move the songs into that folder.

Windows 10: Open the Windows Explorer and navigate to This PC, then Local Disk, then Users. Open the folder which has the first five letters of the name of your account on the computer without spaces, capitalization, or punctuation. Select the box to the left of the search bar that says This PC > Local Disk (C:) > Users > your user folder name. Move the cursor to the end of the selected filepath and click. This deselects the filepath and moves the typing bar to the end of the line. Copy this text without the quotation marks: "\AppData\Local\Packages\Microsoft.MinecraftUWP_8wekyb3d8bbwe\LocalState\games\com.mojang\resource_packs" and paste it after your user folder name in the bar. Press Enter to go to the Minecraft resource packs folder. Here, open the folder which has the name CustomMusi. Open the "custom_songs" folder inside. Next, go to your computer's Downloads folder, which is where the converted files are located. Select the converted songs by holding Ctrl and clicking with the left mouse button. Once every song that you want to have in the music player is selected, press Ctrl+X to cut them. Press Alt+Left Arrow Key to return to the "custom_songs" folder, then press Ctrl+V to move the files.

The song files must be renamed in order for the music player to find them. Change the name of the first song to "custom1.ogg". The second song should be renamed to "custom2.ogg". This pattern works up to "custom100.ogg", which is the maximum amount of songs that can be added to the music player.

Custom covers can be added in a similar way. They can be JPG, JPEG, or PNG files. Move the image file into the "custom_covers" folder, then rename it to "cover[number]". The [number] should be the number of the song you want to have this cover. For example, naming the file "cover1" would cause it to appear on Custom Song 1. To add a cover to the Random Custom Song button, name the file "cover0".

Additional settings for the music player screen can be found inside the "Customizer.txt" file in Custom Music Container. You can also assign a title, artist, and duration to each custom song. To save your settings, save the file before closing it.

The "$always_show..." settings will allow you to remove the toggle for certain sections so they are always visible. They can be set to true or false. These only applies in non-sidebar music players.

The "$show_custom_songs..." settings allow you to make additional custom songs visible. By default, only songs 1-25 are set to appear. These settings can be set to true or false.

The color settings allow you to change the color of text on the music player screen. Top and bottom text colors can be set here, as well as section title and toggle text colors. The colors are given in an array of Red/Green/Blue values. The values are the results of the RGB values divided by 255. For example, to input a red value of 132, a green value of 255, and a blue value of 243, divide each by 255. The results are 0.5176, 1.0, and 0.9529. The array for this color would look like [ 0.5176, 1.0, 0.9529 ].

Past the settings part of the file comes the custom names section. At the top, titles can be added for the custom section and the random custom song button. Below them are the values for custom songs. Each song can be assigned a title, duration, duration in seconds, and artist. The duration in seconds is required for the duration bar to appear. To add one of these values, type between the quotation marks. The text on the player button will automatically be shifted to have space for all three values.